README.md, before:

# Onboard Users Like a Wizard 🧙 with Shepherd.JS -- React Basics Tutorials

![ShepherdJS Banner](./docs/images/ShepherdJS_Banner.png)

**Say goodbye to lost users!**  
Onboarding is a valuable feature for your App's first-time users. 💪

Our free, live workshop will walk you through creating a Web Database App, setting up a React project, and developing a tutorial guiding users through the App.

## Outline <!-- omit in toc -->
* [Get Started](#get-started)
  * [frontend & backend folders](#frontend--backend-folders)
* [Get Your Free Kintone Database](#get-your-free-kintone-database)
* [Create a Kintone Web Database App](#create-a-kintone-web-database-app)
* [Kintone API Token](#kintone-api-token)
* [Create a `.env` File](#create-a-env-file)
* [Appendix](#appendix)
  * [What is Shepherd.JS?](#what-is-shepherdjs)
  * [What is Kintone?](#what-is-kintone)
* [Debugging - Let's Fix Those Problems 💪](#debugging---lets-fix-those-problems-)
  * [Errors related to .env](#errors-related-to-env)
  * [`npm install` command is not working](#npm-install-command-is-not-working)
  * ["npm run upload" failed?](#npm-run-upload-failed)

---

## Get Started

First, let's clone the [sean-kintone/shepherd-react-tutorial](https://github.com/sean-kintone/shepherd-react-tutorial) repo!  🚀  
Then go inside the folder.

Once you are inside the folder, let's install the dependencies!

```shell
cd Downloads

git clone https://github.com/sean-kintone/shepherd-react-tutorial

cd shepherd-react-tutorial
```

Open the `shepherd-react-tutorial` folder in [VS Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/getstarted/tips-and-tricks#_command-line)

```shell
code .
```

### frontend & backend folders
Inside there should be two folders: `frontend` & `backend`

1. Open a terminal per folder ~
1. From inside the folders, download the required packages with `npm install`.

|                      | Terminal 1 - Frontend  🌞                          | Terminal 2 - Backend  🌚                          |
| -------------------- | ------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------ |
| Go inside the folder | `cd ~/Downloads/shepherd-react-tutorial/frontend` | `cd ~/Downloads/shepherd-react-tutorial/backend` |
| What is inside?      | Code for the React App                            | Code for the Express server                      |
| Install packages     | `npm install`                                     | `npm install`                                    |
| To run the scripts   | `npm start`                                       | `npm start`                                      |

## Get Your Free Kintone Database

[bit.ly/KDP_NEW](http://bit.ly/KDP_NEW)
* ⚡ Only use lowercase, numbers, & hyphens in your subdomain
* ⚠ Do not use uppercase or special characters

|                                                                                         |                                                                                                                   |
| --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| ![Step 1: Fill out the Kintone Developer license sign up form](./docs/img/SignUp-1.png) | ![Step 2: Email address will be the login name & the subdomain will be your unique link](./docs/img/SignUp-2.png) |

## Create a Kintone Web Database App

## Kintone API Token

To generate an API Token for a Kintone App:

1. Go to the Kintone App
2. Go to the Gear icon ⚙️ (top right corner) > Open the App Settings page
3. Click on the **App Settings** Tab > Click on **API Token** settings
4. Click the `Generate` button to generate a token
5. Click the `Save` button (top left corner) to save the token setting
6. Finally, click the `Update App` button (top right corner) to implement the token setting change.

Confused? 🤔 → Check out the [Get the API Token](https://youtu.be/pRtfn-8cf_I?t=117) video clip 📺  

---

## Create a `.env` File

Using the [.env.example](.env.example) file as a template, create a `.env` file. Then input your Kintone credentials like the following:

### `.env` Template <!-- omit in toc -->

```txt
SUBDOMAIN = ""
APPID = ""
APITOKEN = ""
```

### Example `.env` File <!-- omit in toc -->

```txt
SUBDOMAIN = "devevents"
APPID = "1"
APITOKEN = "dXNlckBleGFLtcGxlmNvbTpzZWNyZXQe9q3IhtcG"
```

### ⚠️ DO NOT DELETE THE [.env.example](.env.example) FILE!  <!-- omit in toc -->
[.env.example](.env.example) is used by env-cmd to verify that `.env` file is correctly configured.

---

## Appendix

### What is Shepherd.JS?

Shepherd is a free, open-source JavaScript library for guiding users through your App.

Shepherd.JS is similar to other popular onboarding JS libraries such as Intro.JS and React Joyride but:
* Unlike Intro.JS, Shepherd.JS is free for personal and commercial uses.
* Unlike React Joyride, Shepherd.JS is not limited to React projects.

### What is Kintone?

Kintone is a no-code/low-code cloud platform for teams to quickly & easily share and collaborate on their data.

You can add JavaScript, CSS, &/or HTML to enhance the front-end UI/UX of a Kintone App. This can include features such as maps, buttons, and color-coding.

Read up on how to customize and develop on the Kintone platform at [kintone.dev](https://kintone.dev/)

---

## Debugging - Let's Fix Those Problems 💪

Here is a rundown of common problems that may occur & their solutions!

### Errors related to .env

If you get one of the following error messages, then please verify your `.env` file has been correctly configured, and you have not modified the `.env.example`.

* `Failed to find .env file at default paths: [./.env,./.env.js,./.env.json]`
* `[webpack-cli] Error: Missing environment variable: KINTONE_BASE_URL`
* `[webpack-cli] Error: Missing environment variable: KINTONE_USERNAME`
* `[webpack-cli] Error: Missing environment variable: KINTONE_PASSWORD`
* `[webpack-cli] Error: Missing environment variable: VIEW_ID`

### `npm install` command is not working

1. Verify the Node.js & npm versions **inside** the `shepherd-react-tutorial` folder
2. Just installed Node.js? Verify you configured Node.js versions **inside** the `shepherd-react-tutorial` folder

* Mac: `nodenv local 14.5.0`
* Windows: `nvm use 14.5.0`

### "npm run upload" failed?
_@kintone/customize-uploader not working?_ Let's try the following:

(1) Verify that customize uploader was installed globally
* `npm install -g @kintone/customize-uploader`

(2) Verify that the .env login info is correct (including the password)
* ⚠️ Make sure your login info is inside `.env` file & **NOT** `.env.example` file!
* ⚠️ Verify that KINTONE_BASE_URL input is correctly formatted:
  * ✅ Correct Format: `https://example.kintone.com`
  * ❌ Incorrect Format: `https://example.kintone.com/` or `example.kintone.com`
* ⚠️ Re-run the npm commands after saving the .env file
* ⚙️ Details: [Create a `.env` file](#create-a-env-file)

Commit message:

Copied over the Create a Kintone App section

README.md, after:

# Onboard Users Like a Wizard 🧙 with Shepherd.JS -- React Basics Tutorials

![ShepherdJS Banner](./docs/images/ShepherdJS_Banner.png)

**Say goodbye to lost users!**  
Onboarding is a valuable feature for your App's first-time users. 💪

Our free, live workshop will walk you through creating a Web Database App, setting up a React project, and developing a tutorial guiding users through the App.

## Outline <!-- omit in toc -->
* [Get Started](#get-started)
  * [frontend & backend folders](#frontend--backend-folders)
* [Get Your Free Kintone Database](#get-your-free-kintone-database)
* [Create a Kintone Web Database App](#create-a-kintone-web-database-app)
* [Kintone API Token](#kintone-api-token)
* [Create a `.env` File](#create-a-env-file)
* [Appendix](#appendix)
  * [What is Shepherd.JS?](#what-is-shepherdjs)
  * [What is Kintone?](#what-is-kintone)
* [Debugging - Let's Fix Those Problems 💪](#debugging---lets-fix-those-problems-)
  * [Errors related to .env](#errors-related-to-env)
  * [`npm install` command is not working](#npm-install-command-is-not-working)
  * ["npm run upload" failed?](#npm-run-upload-failed)

---

## Get Started

First, clone the [sean-kintone/shepherd-react-tutorial](https://github.com/sean-kintone/shepherd-react-tutorial) repo!  🚀  
Then go inside the folder.

Once you are inside the folder, let's install the dependencies!

```shell
cd Downloads

git clone https://github.com/sean-kintone/shepherd-react-tutorial

cd shepherd-react-tutorial
```

Open the `shepherd-react-tutorial` folder in [VS Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/getstarted/tips-and-tricks#_command-line)

```shell
code .
```

### frontend & backend folders
Inside there should be two folders: `frontend` & `backend`

1. Open a terminal per folder ~
1. From inside the folders, download the required packages with `npm install`.

|                      | Terminal 1 - Frontend  🌞                          | Terminal 2 - Backend  🌚                          |
| -------------------- | ------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------ |
| Go inside the folder | `cd ~/Downloads/shepherd-react-tutorial/frontend` | `cd ~/Downloads/shepherd-react-tutorial/backend` |
| What is inside?      | Code for the React App                            | Code for the Express server                      |
| Install packages     | `npm install`                                     | `npm install`                                    |
| To run the scripts   | `npm start`                                       | `npm start`                                      |

## Get Your Free Kintone Database

[bit.ly/KDP_NEW](http://bit.ly/KDP_NEW)
* ⚡ Only use lowercase, numbers, & hyphens in your subdomain
* ⚠ Do not use uppercase or special characters

|                                                                                         |                                                                                                                   |
| --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| ![Step 1: Fill out the Kintone Developer license sign up form](./docs/img/SignUp-1.png) | ![Step 2: Email address will be the login name & the subdomain will be your unique link](./docs/img/SignUp-2.png) |

## Create a Kintone Web Database App

Let's create a **ShepherdJS Onboarding** Kintone App!  
This will keep track of two metrics for visitors to our site:

1. Did users complete the task?
1. Did users finished our onboarding?

Here are the required fields & their configurations for our workshop:

| Field Type   | Field Name        | Field Code  | Note                                           |
| ------------ | ----------------- | ----------- | ---------------------------------------------- |
| Radio Button | Task Completed    | `completed` | Options: 'Yes' and 'No'                        |
| Number       | Percent Completed | `percent`   | This will show onboarding tour completion rate |

Be sure to click the **Save** and **Activate App** buttons! 💪

Your Kintone app should look like this, with one `Radio Button` field, and one `Number` field:

![Kintone App Overview](images/1-1.png)

Your `Radio Button` settings should look like this (⚠️notice the field code is lower case, `completed`, and your button options are Upper Case `'Yes'` and `'No'`⚠️):
![Radio Button Settings](images/1-2.png)

And your `Number` field settings should like as so:
![Number Field Settings](images/1-3.png)

Confused? 🤔 → Check out the [How to Create a Kintone Database App](https://youtu.be/pRtfn-8cf_I) video 📺

## Kintone API Token

To generate an API Token for a Kintone App:

1. Go to the Kintone App
2. Go to the Gear icon ⚙️ (top right corner) > Open the App Settings page
3. Click on the **App Settings** Tab > Click on **API Token** settings
4. Click the `Generate` button to generate a token
5. Click the `Save` button (top left corner) to save the token setting
6. Finally, click the `Update App` button (top right corner) to implement the token setting change.

Confused? 🤔 → Check out the [Get the API Token](https://youtu.be/pRtfn-8cf_I?t=117) video clip 📺  

---

## Create a `.env` File

Using the [.env.example](.env.example) file as a template, create a `.env` file. Then input your Kintone credentials like the following:

### `.env` Template <!-- omit in toc -->

```txt
SUBDOMAIN = ""
APPID = ""
APITOKEN = ""
```

### Example `.env` File <!-- omit in toc -->

```txt
SUBDOMAIN = "devevents"
APPID = "1"
APITOKEN = "dXNlckBleGFLtcGxlmNvbTpzZWNyZXQe9q3IhtcG"
```

### ⚠️ DO NOT DELETE THE [.env.example](.env.example) FILE!  <!-- omit in toc -->
[.env.example](.env.example) is used by env-cmd to verify that `.env` file is correctly configured.

---

## Appendix

### What is Shepherd.JS?

Shepherd is a free, open-source JavaScript library for guiding users through your App.

Shepherd.JS is similar to other popular onboarding JS libraries such as Intro.JS and React Joyride but:
* Unlike Intro.JS, Shepherd.JS is free for personal and commercial uses.
* Unlike React Joyride, Shepherd.JS is not limited to React projects.

### What is Kintone?

Kintone is a no-code/low-code cloud platform for teams to quickly & easily share and collaborate on their data.

You can add JavaScript, CSS, &/or HTML to enhance the front-end UI/UX of a Kintone App. This can include features such as maps, buttons, and color-coding.

Read up on how to customize and develop on the Kintone platform at [kintone.dev](https://kintone.dev/)

---

## Debugging - Let's Fix Those Problems 💪

Here is a rundown of common problems that may occur & their solutions!

### Errors related to .env

If you get one of the following error messages, then please verify your `.env` file has been correctly configured, and you have not modified the `.env.example`.

* `Failed to find .env file at default paths: [./.env,./.env.js,./.env.json]`
* `[webpack-cli] Error: Missing environment variable: KINTONE_BASE_URL`
* `[webpack-cli] Error: Missing environment variable: KINTONE_USERNAME`
* `[webpack-cli] Error: Missing environment variable: KINTONE_PASSWORD`
* `[webpack-cli] Error: Missing environment variable: VIEW_ID`

### `npm install` command is not working

1. Verify the Node.js & npm versions **inside** the `shepherd-react-tutorial` folder
2. Just installed Node.js? Verify you configured Node.js versions **inside** the `shepherd-react-tutorial` folder

* Mac: `nodenv local 14.5.0`
* Windows: `nvm use 14.5.0`

### "npm run upload" failed?
_@kintone/customize-uploader not working?_ Let's try the following:

(1) Verify that customize uploader was installed globally
* `npm install -g @kintone/customize-uploader`

(2) Verify that the .env login info is correct (including the password)
* ⚠️ Make sure your login info is inside `.env` file & **NOT** `.env.example` file!
* ⚠️ Verify that KINTONE_BASE_URL input is correctly formatted:
  * ✅ Correct Format: `https://example.kintone.com`
  * ❌ Incorrect Format: `https://example.kintone.com/` or `example.kintone.com`
* ⚠️ Re-run the npm commands after saving the .env file
* ⚙️ Details: [Create a `.env` file](#create-a-env-file)
